#PART II jQuery Introduction

jQuery is a compact library of Javascript, which greatly simplifies Javascript programming. In addition, it's easy to learn. Also in this part we assume that you have some basic knowledge about Javascript, HTML, and CSS. Here’s the content we’re going to cover in this part.

A. Selectors
B. Basic Structure: document.ready()
C. Changing CSS Properties
D. Animations

Since jQuery is a library of Javascript, we can use it either by downloading it to your own directory or by making reference to it:

<Method 1>  Downloading the library to your directory

Just include it by the src attributes:

```
<head>
<script src="jquery-1.11.3.min.js"></script>
</head>
```
<Method 2> Including using URL

```
<head>
<script src=
"https://ajax.googleapis.com/ajax/libs/jquery/1.11.3/jquery.min.js"></script>
</head>
```

Then we’re ready for jQuery coding.

##A. Selectors

In order to take control of various tags in HTML documents, we need to know some basic forms of selectors. Selectors are used to select tags with specific, say, id, class, or even tag types. There’s numerous forms of selectors, we want to point out only three of them since they’re probably the most common ones.

```
// selectors 
$(‘p‘)  // select tag <p>
$(‘#demo’)  // select tags with id=”demo”
$(‘.abc’)  // select tags within class abc
```

##B. Basic Structure: document.ready()

After the document is ready, i.e., the browser has already setup all the tags, we can do whatever we want to this document by using the following syntax:

```
$(document).ready(function (){  // $(document) means this document
	// statements goes here
});
```

C. Changing CSS Properties

In this section, we try to change some CSS properties (may be easier than Javascript) by using the .css() method. The basic syntax is like the following:

```
$(selector).css(‘property’,’value’);
```

We can also specify when or under what conditions we will activate this code segment. Here’s use .click() as an example to behave as onClick seen before.

```
$(‘p’).click(function(){
	// statements goes here
});
```

```
// a simple example
$(document).ready(function(){  // when the document is ready
	$(‘#demo’).click(function(){  // select tag with id=”demo”
		$(this).css('color','yellow');
		$(this).css('background-color','blue');
	});
});
```

##D. Animations

Please reference to the example on this website:
http://www.w3schools.com/jquery/tryit.asp?filename=tryjquery_animation1 . 
